title: 'The Six Truths About Freelancing'
author_name: 'Burhaan Pattel'
banner:
  -
    type: set_1
    banner_image:
      - /assets/img/six-truths-about-freelancing.jpg
author_image: /assets/img/Authors/burhaan-headshot-l.jpeg
featured_image: /assets/img/six-truths-about-freelancing.jpg
article_content:
  -
    type: text
    text: '<p>There are a lot of businesses out there. A lot of opportunities. In fact there are more ways to make money today than ever. Freelancing is just one method to earn your way. Freelancing also has a number of options when it comes to career choices.</p><p>You could be a Ruby programmer, a translator, a typist, data capturer, web developer, graphic designer, project manager, or marketer like me. The choices are endless, and there are a number of websites that you can register with to get work. You don’t have to show any fancy degree or qualifications. In this game, it’s all about dedication, skill and service to your customers. Sure a qualification can help, but it’s not a requirement.So what are the truths?</p><h2>1. It’s Hard to be a Freelancer</h2><p>Let''s face it. It is the truth. You probably were not built to be a freelancer. You may have studied to be a developer or took a course in university. But I doubt you learned how to get clients, how to negotiate a price, how to communicate to make the sale or how to close the deal. Some of you may be turned off just by the thought of having to sell. You may say you are just a writer or web designer. I don’t want to sell. But the truth is that you have to sell. In order to win work, keep a steady income and live a lifestyle you want. Working as a freelancer is not like a corporate job where it was the company’s responsibility to make sure you always had work. If they could not get work for you, you would not have the job. So as a freelancer, you are totally dependent on yourself to get the work you need.</p><h2>2. Quitting is easy</h2><p>Quitting is taking the easy road. Trust me when I say it was easy for me to get a job and work a 8-5 for 40 hours a week. That life is simple. Wake up, shower, breakfast, drive, coffee, work, eat, work, coffee work a bit more, then drive home. Bleh. Boring as hell! Whats worse is that if you are required to do more than normal, there is no guarantee that you be compensated for it. You waste your own time, making your boss happy and wealthy, when you could be doing something else.</p><h2>3. Be on Your A Game, Always</h2><p>In the freelancing world, you have to be on your game, all the time. You have to push every minute. And if you don’t. You don’t get paid as much. You lose clients and the market tells you. This is not as easy as it sounds.</p><h2>4. Managing Time is Necessary</h2><p>This truth is so simple. If you don’t put in the hours you will not be paid. The question is how badly do you want to excel and grow in the industry? The rules are easy. The more work you do the more you will earn.</p><p>What do I actual mean when I say “manage time?” You have to get into the habit of using all your time to the best of your ability. Stop watching Netflix. Stop playing Xbox or PS4. Use that time to start that business you wanted. Use the time to exercise and get the body you want. Make calls, apply for jobs, learn a new skill. Get the point? Put in the effort and you will be rewarded.</p><p>You also have to stop doing the things that are not serving you. Get out of bad relationships that are stealing your time and energy. Stop getting wasted every Friday night, to ‘reward’ yourself because you feel you deserve it. Love what you do, and be rewarded by the work. That is the best case scenario.</p><h2>4. You Are at Risk of Losing Work</h2><p>Yes, you could be fired. But, let’s face it. You probably have been fired once or twice before. If not, you will be. I\m not being harsh. This is the truth. Why not start doing the things you really want to?The possible upside to this is to select you clients and do work that you love.</p><h2>5. With Time, You Will Succeed as a Freelancer</h2><p>If you are persistent and keep pushing yourself to do the best you can, manage your time well and decide to prosper, you will. Make it a point to communicate with your clients often, and they will appreciate it.</p><p>Freelancing can provide you with more than a normal paying job can, if you choose to make it so. It is up to you to live the life you choose. Only you.</p><p>Take a leap of faith and know that someone like me can do it, then so can you.</p><p>Thank you for reading to the end. Please like this post if you enjoyed it. If you didn’t tell me why in the comments. I appreciate your feedback.</p>'
  -
    type: article_image_embed
    image_embed: /assets/img/me.jpg
  -
    type: quote
    quote_text: 'Test the Quote'
    cite: 'Me Miles'
id: f9c1f32d-1db5-48c7-9aa1-750ce1ecdae2
